This is basically the first major piece I bought on my own and my husband thought it was next.
Now he doesn't, obviously.
Charles Maltby was a friend of Abraham Lincoln's, and they lived in New Salem.
That's where they met.
And later on, Lincoln appointed him in charge of Indian affairs in California.
And so Mrs. Maltby, when she was in Washington, brought three copies.
And these lithographs were done by a 14-year-old lithographer in San Francisco.
name i think it's butler and lincoln signed them one is in this one is the best copy of it and i would assume it's the first one he signed because you could see he pressed too hard and it just did that and the others aren't like that this is a one of three this one was given to cornelius cole who was a senator in california
The other one was given to Maltby, and it's in the Los Angeles County Museum of Natural History.
And there's one more that I heard a dealer has in Washington, D.C.
And mine is supposed to be in the best condition because you see the flag and the colors and everything.
The one in the museum is all the flag, the colors are faded, and likewise with the one in Washington.
So this is de-emancipation, or did you say the California?
the California Emancipation Proclamation.
But it is one of three, so it makes it much rarer, people are beginning to realize, than the ones where there were 52, and now there's 28 existing.
And let's see, these are slave bills.
They just wanted two different types.
This one says the slaves, and this one says Negroes.
But the one that is unique about this one
It's from Hardin County, Kentucky, which was Lincoln's birth town.
And this is a piece of the coat that Lincoln was wearing when he was shot.
And that's the document.
It came from Reverend Gurley, who was the one that, I guess he did the funeral services and was there.
And it's attested to it and said, what were thinking were key?
This came out of a private collection.
I wonder how he got it.
Did he take it to order?
Because isn't most of the code with the... No.
The code is in Ford's Theater in the basement in the museum.
But from what I'm told, part of it was put back together.
But there are several pieces of it.
That's a eulogy on a Lincoln book plate.
written by Thomas Edison on Abraham Lincoln.
This is another reverse glass of the summer home, the soldier's home that the Lincolns went to when the weather got real hot.
They'd leave the city and go and stay there.
And then, that's a morning silk in New York City for the funeral.
And that's a gauge bronze.
These are just nothing, you know, pickup things.
I mean, they're unique and rare, but they're not of much value.
This is an invitation that the Lincolns sent out for people to come.
I forget who they were invited.
March 1, 1864.
for the White House.
President and Mrs. Licken at home Tuesday evening, March 20th.
I'm sorry, Andrea.
I get off track every single time.
This is fine.
But in collecting, we collect antiques, 18th century English, and some 17th century, and some American pieces, mostly English.
I saw an ad in an antique paper, and I saw these two portraits.
And it said, Mr. and Mrs. Salmon Chase.
And I liked them.
Ended up, it's a long story, but I ended up buying them.
And they are the original portraits of Salmon Chase and his first wife, Catherine.
And they were painted by two painters, Samuel, but they were called Waldo and Jewett.
Samuel, Lovett, Waldo, and William Jewett.
One of them painted the hands and the face, and the other one painted the clothing.
And the unique thing about it is they got married.
Eight months later, she had a baby and died giving birth to the baby.
So here he is, without a wife, a little baby.
He starts to raise the baby and meets another woman and marries her.
then she's helping to raise this baby the baby dies then this second woman the second wife has a baby and he makes her name the baby after the first wife the baby of the second life was kate chase who was mary lincoln's arch enemy in washington she was like the belle of washington in the 1860s and
She wanted her father to become president, so they were like... And he became, he was a chief justice, and he was secretary of the treasury.
So I bought them because I felt they were good looking.
They've been offered, I heard, to the Chase Manhattan Bank, and the curator said we only collect contemporary art now.
That's great.
Do you want to see certain things?
Sure.
Anything you want to show me, sure.
Do you mind, Louise, if I take a few pictures?
Does that bother you?
Yeah.
Okay.
But I don't, yeah, kind of.
Let's wait, I think, for it.
Because then people might see what, you know, what it is or whatever.
These spoons, you can see, say...
They belonged to Ninian and Elizabeth Edwards.
Elizabeth Edwards was Mary Lincoln's sister, and it was in the Edwards home that the Lincolns were married, and supposedly the spoons were used at the wedding.
And that's Mary Lincoln's letter opener, and I don't know what you call that.
It's like a little date thing made out of ivory.
And then these two pieces of marble, this piece is from, have you ever been to Springfield?
No.
Okay, in Springfield, there was the first, you'll see pictures, there was a holding vault before they built the big tomb.
And this is a piece of marble from the holding vault.
And this is a piece of marble that was on the table, that the casket was on, on the train that went from Washington back to Springfield.
and the marble broke.
So a few people got souvenir pieces.
Supposedly this is the only one in existence.
This is the cufflink button that Lincoln had on.
The other one is in the Library of Congress.
You mean the night of the assassination?
And that's a piece of the lead.
There's two pieces.
That piece that was kept by the man that cut open
the coffin before Lincoln was finally buried.
They had to view the body to make sure before they put all the concrete in the wire.
And that was his piece, and there's another piece that's about this big.
It's in the library in Springfield, Illinois.
And then in here, I have a tea napkin and a handkerchief from Mary Lincoln, and she monogrammed the M on it.
And these are the carte de visite in a lock of hair of Mary Lincoln, carte de visite of Willie in his hair, and Abraham in his hair.
And then that's a piece of Meissen china from Hildene that was Robert Lincoln's.
And then that china is of the period and is the pattern that the Lincolns used in their home in Springfield, but it did not belong to the Lincolns.
Did you acquire those three items separately?
These were together from a collector.
And then, that's Abraham Lincoln's billfold.
That's great.
What he would do, supposedly, a billfold was if he was on the circuit and did some work for someone and there was an IOU, he would put it into the slot
that they owed him, just a little note, and when he got back home, then I guess he would put it in a ledger.
What do you call this part of it?
Well, this is not the manuscript.
No, artifacts.
This is artifacts, yeah.
This is a sash, a pallbearer sash from Springfield, Illinois.
This is Abraham Lincoln's handkerchief with the A monogrammed by Mary, and then
The three bottles there and that bottle.
The one laying down is a snuff bottle.
The two on the side of the middle one are the ink bottles.
And the center one is Abraham Lincoln's cough medicine bottle.
And they were all from the Lincoln-Hurndon Law Office.
They were found between the flooring.
There was a flooring put over the original flooring.
Look at the hat.
And that's Abraham Lincoln's hat.
Wow.
And his glasses.
This is pretty impressive.
And then this is the Lincoln-Douglas debates, and they're signed.
It is signed.
By Lincoln and Douglas?
No, they never both signed them.
If someone had one, I don't know what the price would be.
They never did.
This is signed by whom?
This is signed by Lincoln and came from the Doheny collection.
The hat, the glasses, and the billfold were on the Freedom Train around the United States, and Governor Thompson of Illinois took the three of them on a tour of China.
So we have all these brochures in Chinese with Abraham Lincoln.
The hat is really something.
And then, yes, I'll open the show again.
That's a piece of flooring from the Lincoln Home.
That's an extraordinary case, but I don't think as well.
Look at the spectacles on it.
I gather that photograph, this picture... That's just really a postcard from one of the sites in Springfield, but it shows the hat.
You can see they used one of these real tall ones, and you can see it wasn't quite that tall.
is one of the pairs of gloves that Mary Lincoln had when she bought hundreds and hundreds of gloves.
These were never worn.
I have some upstairs that she wore.
And this ivory and lace parasol was hers.
And I would suppose this was one of her mourning parasols because of the black.
And then this is a book that had been given to her and obviously used when they were in Washington.
washington described mrs a lincoln she didn't sign it but it was her book all about washington so and you could see with the guilt around it so it was a very special copy and then this is a presentation copy from mary lincoln to tad her son but it's because the association i don't know that is
She writes and it's presented to Thomas Lincoln by his mother December 25, 1867.
So it was a Christmas present.
And what is the book?
It's part of the Soldier Boy series.
You'll see I have more of them.
There was a whole series of these books.
That's about as good a Lincoln Association copy as you can get.
I have a lot of books.
What are these?
This is interesting.
It's Staffordshire that they made, and I guess when Abraham Lincoln was president, the English just put A. Lincoln.
I've seen very few of them.
I was lucky to get them.
These are all Staffordshire, too.
John Brown, Uncle Tom, Little Eva.
And this was produced during Lincoln's lifetime?
That I don't know.
I don't know too much about it.
All I know is I saw it somewhere and had to have it.
And one day I saw one and got it.
General Grant's pocketbook.
Right.
Grant's memoirs, of course.
We get sidetracked.
The pocketbook's inside that case, and it's real fragile.
And he signed the inside of the pocketbook.
a pastel on linen of Edwin Booth.
And these were all Edwin's ticket to a theater that he owned.
The greatest American Shakespearean actor ever.
And this is the, that's John Wilkes Booth's father.
And this is the ticket that was in his pocket
He died.
He died on a boat, a steamship.
Passage ticket from New Orleans to Cincinnati.
Found in this person after his death in Arbitrary of 1852.
And then, if you could see, that's, there's a few hairs of John Maxwell.
I usually don't keep much proof of that.
And this is Edwin.
This is a playbill of Edwin's.
How did you get so interested in Edwin?
I bought, that's the collection I bought because I didn't want it broken up.
And that's an oil painting of Edwin of Hamlet.
And then this is one of his Hamlet costumes.
It's magnificent.
I've seen some of his at the Players Club and this is like this.
I'm on the library board of the players.
You told me that.
Yeah, that's exciting.
This is a study for a painting that supposedly wasn't done.
It was very young here.
I think it was in, I forget, 1850-something.
And these are three views from the old state capitol.
So there are three streets that surround it, the old state capitol in Springfield.
And I've got to have it.
marked, but this is the bank that he kept his money at, and let's see.
Okay, here's the law office, the court.
This was the farmer's bank.
This one's a real famous photograph, and you see it in all the different books.
Is this a contemporary print?
Of the period, yes.
It's a photograph made right at the time.
An original.
This is Brady's photography box.
Wow.
Matthew Brady's photography box.
And then these are just unique
china pieces that i picked up a lincoln paperweight this is an illinois watch company put out a lincoln watch and on the back of it it says a lincoln illinois watch company and the people in illinois they get these they get really excited it's a big deal to have it and i got the sample salesman's copy this is a civil war necklace of buttons made up from the uniform the center one's confederate and the rest are union these are just plain
This is the Lincoln room, I gather.
Let me turn more lights.
The clock from the Lincoln room in the office.
That's H-E-R-N-D-O-N, and that was also in Springfield, is that right?
That's a campaign ticket.
This is a daybed that was made by Thomas Lincoln, Abraham Lincoln's father.
It was made in 1808.
I should prepare myself someday, my chance will come.
Oh, that's what I got when I got my own redacted.
That, it was in Springfield, I guess it's like a campaign flag that was used by the Wide Awakes.
And that flag didn't go with this, but this is what they use.
a flag similar to that was like nailed on and there was oil in there and they lit it up and at night they'd march and campaign.
That's a picture of the writers all together that did Sandberg's Lincoln for David Walter.
Do you work for that?
These are the mask, the bulk mask and hands.
These were actually used, as I understand it, when they created the Lincoln Memorial, the monument, they used these hands, I think, isn't that right?
As a model for the... I don't know.
I don't know.
Those hands are very important.
These hands here...
We saw that at the Master's Coral Society.
That's exactly right.
We saw it a couple of weeks ago.
They had that.
There's more than one set.
There's a lot of sets, but you can see the finer sets have more definition in the sculpture.
But my point is these were used when they created the Lincoln.
These are the hands.
If you go to the Lincoln Memorial in Washington, those are the hands you can see.
I mean, obviously much larger.
He actually used those hands.
I didn't know it either.
We just heard that.
And let's see.
It's just different sculptures by different people.
That's Stephen Douglas.
This is a Mary Lincoln's nightcap.
These are her undergarments.
And those are her gloves.
I think she wore those to one of the inaugurations.
Is that a Civil War chess set?
I saw it recently in a mail order catalog.
You could see Abraham and Mary Lincoln on this side and Grant.
Jefferson Davis on the other side.
Right.
Let's see.
Oh, this is interesting.
This is the Council Award, but the thing that makes this one unique is this one belonged to Robert Lincoln.
What do we call it again?
The Council of War.
And it was in Hilding, and Robert Lincoln kept it, someone said like 30 years.
Right.
Right next to him.
Who executed this?
John Rogers.
Wasn't it John Rogers?
And they were all done in plaster, but in some of the Lincoln letterpresses we found in Springfield, it says that Robert, when he was in Chicago,
took it to someone on Wabash Avenue and had this bronze coating put over it.
That's right.
This is Grant to Lincoln's right, is that right?
And Stanton.
And Stanton to his left.
And then, um... Tell me what you've seen now.
This is all...
Bulk's sculpture.
It's the only one in marble of the hand.
And these, I'll just open it so you can get a better look.
These are really unique.
Not many people have anything.
If you want to come around this side.
This is White House China.
But this is the China the Lincolns ordered.
They ordered this for the White House, and they ordered a set for themselves, and they were taking a long time to come.
So Mary Lincoln wrote all these letters, where's my China, where's my China, drove them crazy.
So to be nice, they made her a tiny set of the pink China, and this is the terrine.
And then this is Robert Lincoln's sterling silver toothpick holder, and his wife Mary Harlan Lincoln's sterling teaspoons.
And then this is Mary Lincoln's morning fan, the morning collar, her morning veil, her sterling silver spoons.
And then all these books were hers, and they're all signed and dated.
By Mary.
And then these spoons are coin silver spoons that belong to her sister and husband and Wallaces.
Then these books, let's see, what's the best?
Okay, I have Robert Lincoln's copy of the Lincoln-Douglas Debates.
This is a book that belonged and signed by Mary Lincoln Beckwith, who was the great-granddaughter
This book was written by the nurse that took care of Willie when he died in the White House, and it's signed by her, Mrs. Pomeroy.
And there's a letter, I have a copy of a letter in it from Springfield, where Robert wrote about getting the book and how he remembered her and liked her.
This is Robert's copy and signed of a book, I guess, when they were in London and went to Westminster Abbey.
This book is, they're all, see, they're all very personal.
This is Abraham Lincoln II, his grandson's signature.
It looks a lot like Lincoln's, doesn't it?
He was very good at that, and that was his number.
He had a whole numbering system of what he did with his library.
And then this book is, I think this one is Tad's, Thomas Lincoln, signed.
which is very unique.
There are very few who tried to do A. Lincoln.
No, no, this isn't the one.
I have it over there.
This one was given by Mary, and she puts, presented to Thomas Lincoln on the 15th anniversary of his birthday by his affectionate mother, Mary Lincoln, Chicago, April 4th, 1868.
That's pretty spectacular.
And let's see.
These are Robert Lincoln's.
Okay, here's Tad's school book, signed.
This is when, after the assassination, they moved to Chicago.
This was given to Robert Lincoln.
It's a biography of Abraham Lincoln.
Robert Lincoln Esquire with kind regards, and Arnold signed it.
And then the same thing with this one.
But this was when he went to Harvard.
Robert signed it, R.T.
Lincoln, Cambridge.
Yes.
And this is a signed
I don't know what you'd call it, but Lincoln had it with him, and it was to a man named Mr. Kaysen.
Kaysen was the man that outfitted and redid the inside of the car that took Lincoln from Springfield to Washington, and he gave this to Abraham Lincoln.
That's K-A-S-S-A-N.
W-M-Kaysen, April 1886.
Okay.
And?
Another Mary Lincoln.
What did she write in her?
The Gate's ajar, so it must be a novel.
Mary Lincoln.
See, Robert saved it.
Mary Lincoln, 1870, September.
And what's in here, Andrew?
Is it the Kitchell?
Oh, this is fabulous.
This is new.
I just got it.
Ah!
This is great.
I forgot about it.
Oh, it's a manuscript.
This is a manuscript.
where Lincoln is defending a couple that accused a woman of being a whore.
And in the first part, he says, you can see right here, Marianne Jacobus gets her fine clothing clothed up by whoring, say plaintiff.
Mary Ann Jacobus is a whore.
She gets her clothes by whoring.
So it goes through the whole thing and they finally stay.
She didn't own anything else.
He was very clever because at the end he said that neither of the people had, let's see, knowledge, information or reasonable belief or want of charity on the part of the plaintiff or either of her sisters.
And therefore, by the consent of the parties, this suit is dismissed, and each of the parties pay their own.
But there was a part of it where he says she only owned the clothes she had on her back, so if she was whoring, she didn't do too well.
Was that by a private acquisition or at a sale?
A dealer.
Oh, good.
Okay, this is Abraham Lincoln from his library.
Oh, nice.
And it was given to him by .
And what is it?
I love that cloth and the binding here.
The Diplomatic Correspondents Department of State, so it's really its official .
And then this is the history of the Lincoln family.
This is the one signed by Robert Todd Lincoln Beck with the great-grandson.
Does that say Worcester Mass on it?
Mm-hmm.
Worcester Mass?
That's where we are.
Worcester Mass.
I wonder why Worcester is on there.
Maybe the Antiquarian Society or something?
Okay.
History of the Lincoln Family.
Presentation copy to Abraham Lincoln.
Well, the Lincoln is from Worcester.
Yeah.
I wonder why that says Worcester Mass on it.
The publisher gave Lincoln this, so it's just a presentation copy.
I don't know why.
There's always a Worcester connection, isn't it?
And then... This is a presentation copy, a book signed by Stephen Douglas.
And it's very rare, because I don't know anyone else that has one, and it's the Constitution.
Oh, gee.
And it belonged to Williamson.
That's why it's such a thing.
You know, the Lilly Library has Jefferson Davis' copy of the Constitution.
Oh, you're kidding.
Yeah, and it's signed.
And then the guy who had it after that said, a heck of a lot of good it did him.
He wrote right in it.
But that's in the vault, the Lilly Library.
So that gives you some idea of what you have here, you know.
Wow.
That's in the vault at the Lilly Library of Williamson.
And then, let's see, these are...
This is in the Lincoln inventory, what was in the house.
And we've discovered that these were Mary Lincolns.
And in the inventory, plus they're cookbooks.
One's a house book and one's a cookbook to Mary Harlan.
And then... This is Mary Lincoln.
I've got a lot of Mary Lincoln books on.
This is to Mrs. A. Lincoln with compliments.
This is from the author.
It's a presentation copy.
And this is Mary Lincoln's letterbox.
How long have you been acquiring all this?
I've been collecting for about 18 years, but I'm really seriously doing all this for five years.
Hmm.
We're going to get into that, how she became a collector.
This is Lincoln's private correspondence of James Madison.
It was Lincoln's.
You can see it's a special edition.
It's a printed book.
It's not a manuscript.
to Abraham Lincoln, President of the United States, from DeFries, and DeFries gave it to him.
And you can see it's the, I forget what they call it, but it wasn't.
And then these four books are from the Lincoln-Herndon Law Office, and one is a very rare Illinois book, and they're all signed Lincoln and Herndon, all by Herndon.
And then this is Another Life of Abraham Lincoln,
This is Robert Lincoln's copy of his father's life.
This is Elmer Ellsworth.
This is Mary Devlin.
There's poems written by Edwin Booth to his first wife.
This is Meserve, so it's all photographs of Lincoln.
This is Mary's Surratt manuscript.
She was the first lady.
She was the, you know, the one that had the boarding house.
Oh yeah.
And this is actually a letter of hers.
It's the only one in private hand.
How do we spell?
Mary Surratt.
Her name is S-U-R-R-A-T-T.
S-U-R-R-A-T-T.
This is... God, we should probably pull it out.
It's hard to explain.
It's a salesman's copy of a book, The War of the Rebellion.
And you had to sign up to order the book.
Yeah.
Do you know how to do the air?
So warm.
Can you help me with that?
Can I help you with that works?
It's real handy.
You can put this on that movie table.
Over here.
Yes.
This is the book.
And what?
The salesman would go around and take this little book with him, and he'd say, This is what I'm selling.
And this is one binding, and there's the other.
These are very, very, very rare.
I have both sets.
They call salesman's dummies.
And so, they put it together, just, it's a sample, and the chapters, and then people, you know, wrote in it.
And then part of it's interesting, because part of it's in German.
There it is.
And then the people ordered it.
And if you go through, I mean, it's every famous person in Washington, it's a library, Congress, and, you know, real important places, but,
Look who else signed it.
These are all their signatures, right?
Gideon Wells, Chase, A. Lincoln.
Lincoln ordered a library copy.
Seward, Montgomery, Blair.
That's your signature, right?
So the salesman actually came in.
He came in to the president and he ordered it.
And it goes all the way through.
So it's really fabulous.
Isn't it wonderful?
Let me just get the title of the book so I got it.
The title.
I love it.
Is The Great Rebellion.
I got it.
The Great Rebellion.
The History of the Civil Rights by T.J.
And then... That's great.
Salesman's dummies are... Can I do that for you?
No, no, no.
This is an original photograph of us.
Here he is.
Famous, famous picture.
And then this is a little note.
And the story is that during the war, Thomas Tad Lincoln would go in and bother the soldiers that were in the stables.
And he asked to have his horse shoes.
So they said, you know, go ask your father for permission.
So he came back with this little note, and it says, Shoe Tad's horse for him, A. Lincoln.
And so this soldier had it verified that it was to him, and he kept it in his pocket, they say, until the day he died.
Shoe Tad's horse for him, A. Lincoln, April 7th, 18th.
That's wonderful.
And of course, that photo is the one they recently used as the basis for that stamp, the American reading, and it shows Lincoln.
Very, very famous.
You should get the stamp.
And then this, this is very unique.
See, Andrea, all the other parts aren't here.
There was the book telling about it and everything.
Yeah, but the original letter that goes in it.
Okay.
Maybe bring out the Lincoln box.
This is, you've heard of Monaghan.
Okay, Monaghan is for book collectors in Lincoln.
Monaghan 1, 2, and it goes into the thousands.
It's like the bibliography of Lincoln collecting.
There's Monaghan, it's great to have Monaghan 1, 2, 3, and 4 are missing of the story, missing one of them.
This is before one.
They just discovered it.
And it was used, Lincoln was defending a woman
And this is the handbill that he had printed that was tacked up in the courtroom.
Did you bring out the manuscript?
They're in the drawer.
In the glass.
And this was part of the exhibit.
This was Lincoln's copy, the only copy, because wherever it was hung, I guess it got thrown out or they didn't make very many of them.
And it was used in the courtroom.
And if I pull it out, you'll see there's notes on the back with his writing.
But then also part of it, there's a manuscript where he took this part because he needed to show it to the court and hand wrote it because they didn't have their own machines.
And we have that piece.
Is that it?
And he writes a copy.
And you can see where it says judgment.
He copies it exactly as it is there in his hand.
So it really goes together.
That's great.
Very, very, very rare.
These are handbills to the public.
August 5th, 1837.
Wow.
Abraham Lincoln's statement by Benjamin Talbot.
Charles R.
M-E-T-A-G-N-Y.
Matheny.
Stephen T. Logan.
Simeon.
S-I-M-E-O-N.
Francis.
Seventh, eight, eight, eight, eight.
See, Simeon Francis printed it in the newspaper because he was the publisher of the Sangamo Journal, which was the paper.
And I think what?
Rare Werewolf.
Do you want to go to the next one?
Furniture pieces?
Lincoln?
No.
You want me to pull those up?
I'll just show a few of these, then we can get to those albums later and just do some manual scripts, I think.
There's just a few I wanted you to see.
I'll offer to help you with it.
I'm afraid to handle these things.
Okay, this piece is a wanted poster.
Oh, is this the group wanted poster?
This is... And I'll show you.
I have an earlier one.
I know how.
Musicians don't know.
These are very, very, very scarce, these posters.
Because a lot of them were fakes.
That's right.
This is a good one.
Howard Gottlieb has one across the university.
He told me how this is going, his prized possessions.
Did that have a date on it, Andrea?
Did they date this poster?
Yeah, so this was issued like almost right away.
But I have an earlier one that was the first one.
I'll show you that one.
So that's what makes it so scary.
This is the playbill.
Oh, the playbill.
And a ticket seat number.
And I have another ticket that's a
What do you call it?
I guess a receipt that you pick up your ticket for the dress circle.
Was that the night of April 14th?
Friday evening, April 14th?
Mm-hmm.
Okay.
That gives you goosebumps.
Oh, that's just a commission.
Signed by Lincoln.
This is unique.
This is an entire real estate transaction handled by Lincoln.
And the Todd family, Mary Lincoln's family, invested in land in Springfield, Illinois.
And Mariah Todd Bullock, Mary Lincoln's aunt, decided she wanted to sell some of the land.
So she asked Abraham Lincoln to represent her.
And it took him five years.
He made no money.
It cost him money.
And these are all the parts to it.
This is the plat map that he had made.
And all this is his writing.
This is his writing.
And he divided up and showed where it was.
Then he had to have a public sale and sell some.
He did that.
And a man that bought it
Let's see, what is this one?
This is the terms to who it was sold to.
This is the Vinnie.
This man, William Vinnie, bought it.
So this is the deed and the whole thing.
All that's Lincoln's writing.
Then Vinnie, they went and took the note to the assessor's office.
It's in his writing.
Then...
A busy lawyer, wasn't he?
He did all the... That's another part of it.
Then he promises to pay Mariah Bullock, and this is his note, but Lincoln wrote the whole thing out.
Two years after date, I promised to pay Mrs. Mariah Bullock $81 with interest at the rate of 6% per annum from date until pay.
And then Vinnie signed it.
Well, then Vinnie couldn't pay it.
It's a whole history, isn't it?
That's more recent.
That's all in Lincoln's writing.
This is part of the transaction.
And when is this?
This is probably in the 40s or 30s?
It's Stark, and we'll have it written on the cover, don't we?
What year?
These are the legals.
You had to take Vinnie to court.
I've had them cleaned, so they were folded and Lincoln didn't rip the pages, so when we encapsulated them, we left them full.
That's all the whole legal process.
Yeah, usually they're folded just to be like something like that.
Well, it's two pages, but we didn't want to tear them.
If Lincoln didn't tear them, we're not going to.
And that's one.
And there's the other.
And that was the whole transaction.
I never made any money on that.
No.
Honest Abe.
Want to sit down?
Yeah.
Sure.
I'll just pull out things that
are unique.
I love that.
Just things that are unique.
No, none for me, thanks.
This is 1832.
This is when he was captain in the Black Hawk War.
May I?
Sure.
I do hereby certify that William Carpenter was
This is fabulous.
You've heard of the Lincoln Berry Store in New Salem.
He went into business and opened his store, but he had to take a loan.
This is the only loan he ever took, and this is the document.
That's the only loan.
This is the only loan?
1833.
What do we call this again?
This is the, it's a, how do I describe it?
It's a receipt.
Well, it's a loan.
It says, all in Lincoln's hand, one day after date, we or either of us promised to pay
Reuben Radford.
It's a promissory note, yeah.
$379.82 for value received is witness our hand and seal.
And Lincoln signed it, Barry signed it, and... Barry, how do you spell his name?
And then there's some penciling in when they started paying it off.
That's quite a document, because it's part of the folklore of the man, too.
Well, here's another one from New Salem, and this is one where Lincoln was postmaster, and he writes, Missers, your subscriber at this place, John C. Vance, is dead, and no person takes the paper from this office, respectfully, a Lincoln PM.
Postmaster.
I try to collect every phase of his life, and I like the real personal things.
This is something, just a note from his first law partner that's all in his writing, but it was Lincoln and Stewart.
And I have Lincoln, you know, with all of them.
This is a bond that was signed by Lincoln.
And after 1860, after 1840, he very rarely signed a bond.
This was the trial we saw.
Oh, this is great.
This is the only document I have ever seen signed by Lincoln and Douglas together.
and it was during the trial.
Lincoln was for the plaintiff and Douglas for the defendant.
And the date is August 17th, 1839.
That's kind of neat.
Can I just hold that?
Sure.
Stephen T. Logan versus James Adams from the Circle Court of Swithersburg?
I don't know how to do this, but it's a point.
It's a point.
He is agreed by the
parties to the above case that the same be continued.
There's a place that's legalese, signed August 17, 1831, Abraham A. Lincoln for plaintiff, Douglas for defendant.
Isn't that something?
Isn't that great?
Yeah, that's exciting.
I'm just going to pull out.
Do you think there's anything like that at the National Archives?
There's none ever anywhere.
Again, was that something that you acquired privately or at a sale, do you remember?
That was privately.
So you're like, you really are on alert, aren't you?
Oh, yeah.
Like a wolf on the hunt.
Coffee's wonderful, by the way.
No, thank you.
Right now?
Maybe a little bit later.
Where's the piece at the Huntington?
Oh, we have a bunch of things at the Huntington Hill.
Now, you're going to be participating in an exhibit next year, I think you told me.
Right.
Jointly with the Huntington and the State of Illinois.
That's quite an honor to have two institutions like the Huntington and the Historical Society of Illinois, and a private individual.
It's never been done.
I guess that gives some indication of the strength of your collection, I guess.
I want to talk at some point about how Louise Tapin became a Lincoln collector and the energy that drives it and what you're hoping to accomplish.
As much as I'm enjoying this, but I know your time is precious.
People come here.
from Library of Congress, and they want to look.
And you can't see it in a day.
It takes days.
I've got Mary Lincoln.
It started, I read a book when my kids were babies.
I read a book, Love is Eternal by Irving Stone.
Don't give them any credit because I didn't like it.
But I read the book, and I just wanted to know what happened to the children's children.
You know, you read the whole story and he's assassinated and it ends.
And then I thought, gee, what happened to the children?
What happened to the wife?
I was curious.
And my brother collects rare newspapers from Revolutionary War on.
So I called him up and said, how can I find out?
And he said, he gave me two numbers to call.
A man in charge of rare books before Alan Judsy, it was Cary Bliss.
And he said, call Cary Bliss at the Huntington or call Dawson's Bookshop.
Well, to make long story short, they both led me to a man named Justin Turner, who had been the leading Lincoln collector in the country at that time.
And I met him, was introduced to him, and immediately he was excited because he was an old man, and he was thrilled that someone real young was interested in Lincoln.
So he said, I will work with you.
You can come over every day.
You can go through my files.
You can do anything you want.
I'd love for you to learn Lincoln and carry it on.
So a collector got you.
Another collector got you.
Right.
But his daughter was married to a man that owned a manuscript gallery.
So we became friends, and I wanted to learn about collecting that way also.
So I said, could I work for you, but I don't want the money?
just figure out what you pay me per hour.
At the end of the year, we'll add it up, and I'll pick out documents.
So we did that.
And I worked off and on.
I could choose my own hours.
And then from there, everyone started coming to me because I was just obsessed.
I started buying books and forming a reference library.
And I had the contacts because of Justin Turner.
So I ended up doing the six one-hour specials on Abraham Lincoln
Sandberg's Lincoln, where Hal Holbrook played Lincoln.
Now, you say you did them?
Well, I was signed on at the beginning, before the scripts were written, and my job was to divide Lincoln's life into six parts.
Then, they picked six writers, and they had to be Academy Award-winning or Emmy Award-winning writers.
And then I would supply them with all the information, and they'd put it in the script form.
So they wanted unique things or something exciting.
And it was fun, because then when we went into production, they said, could you stay on?
I worked with the costume people, showed them pictures, the makeup people, set decorators, everything.
So it was fun.
And this was all done here, of course.
Yes.
And I got to go to Springfield to do research.
Then...
But I still want to go, again, you read the book and you want to know what happened to the children.
I'm still wondering what?
Did you know inside that you were a collector, that you had this... No.
Well, it started, you know, I couldn't afford to buy things.
I really couldn't afford to do it.
So I, every so often, instead of, you know, it was a birthday or something, I would say, oh, I want to give me money so I could go buy whatever I wanted.
And, you know, most women wanted clothing or jewelry, and I just really cared about getting Lincoln things.
So I did that, and then a number of years, it was like dormant, but it was always there.
And I was always involved in the Manuscript Society and was the first woman president of the Los Angeles or Southern California Manuscript Society, and just kept active.
And then I married my husband about
We're married six years.
And I decided I sold some property and I decided I was going to invest in some manuscripts in a big way.
So we went to the Doheny sale and I bought the California Emancipation Proclamation.
And I paid double what I intended to pay.
And he said, you are crazy.
What is wrong with you?
And I said, well, I had to have it.
reporters came up and you know they wanted names i told them i don't want any publicity anything at the time and then i started just buying some things and pretty soon it was well you know i don't want to use up all my money and my husband said well you know i'll give you some now and before you know it he's a collector with me and now we're both just totally obsessed and i guess the training that i had
all those years when I really couldn't afford to buy, made it lucky because then when I could, I knew what to do.
And I knew exactly what to do because I, Tom Schwartz, you spoke with Tom, who's the curator in Springfield.
I said to him, oh, come on, anyone with money can go and make a collection.
He said, it's not true.
If you gave someone millions of dollars and said, go out and be a collector,
If you don't have a collector's mentality and you're not focused, you cannot acquire a collection like this.
If you have millions of dollars, anybody can be an accumulator.
Exactly.
But to be a collector, you have to have the knowledge and the focus and the direction and taste.
I have met accumulators who have major collections and they have people that come to their home and put it together and put it on the shelf and do all that.
I do all, we do everything ourselves.
I fly wherever I have to go, pick up the piece, bring it back, or I have it bought for me and it's sent here, we catalog it, we get it deacidified, encapsulated, and we do all the research on it, and, you know, really.
I mean, you wouldn't think of hiring an agent and saying, gee, put together a Lincoln collection.
Never, never, never.
And because I'm so focused into Lincoln,
and Mary Lincoln and the children that everyone knows me.
And wherever I go, I hear someone, oh, you're from Illinois?
Gee, do you know anyone in your family knows anything about anyone that has any Lincoln pieces?
And I have gotten a lot of things that way.
And I have an apartment in Springfield, Illinois, and go there a lot.
So naturally now I'm on the board of the Abraham Lincoln Association and the Lincoln Legals and all the different groups.